---
permalink: /2016/06/unicode-cuddly-application-server.html
layout: post
title: "Unicode and the Cuddly Throwable Application Server"
date: 2016-08-09 18:30
comments: false
categories: 
- '2016'
- 'Alex Blewitt' 
- 'Holly Cummins'
- unicode
- appserver
- embedded
- java
---

We are pleased to bring you the thirteenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group
within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community
in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this
month are Holly Cummins and Alex Blewitt.

<h2>Dr. Holly Cummins - The Cuddly Throwable Application Server</h2>

Computers are getting small enough and cheap enough that they're almost
disposable. It’s possible to sock computers away almost anywhere, and to
connect almost anything to the internet. At the same time, the Java stacks that
we know and love are also getting lighter and cheaper. That combination means
it's possible to put a full spec-compliant Java EE server on ridiculously cheap
hardware, and then throw it around the room without worrying too much about
breaking stuff. 

This talk will explore the limits of embeddable hardware, and present a
getting-started-guide to the Internet of Things. What’s needed? How much does
it cost? What’s the best way of making an embeddable device talk to the
internet? And why would you want a throwable application server? As well as
hints and tips, there will be a show-and-tell session (or “demo” if you’re
discussing with your boss). 

Source code is available at <a href="https://github.com/holly-cummins/throwable-application-server">https://github.com/holly-cummins/throwable-application-server</a> if you'd like further information.

The slides from the presentation are available
<a href="{{ site.github.url }}/presentations/2016/HollyCummins-ThrowableCuddlyApplicationServer.pdf" rel="nofollow">here</a> 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8DB-bIUUaq0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/4HkAUbfp22ijtT" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/HollyCummins/the-cuddly-throwable-application-server" title="The Cuddly Throwable Application Server" target="_blank">The Cuddly Throwable Application Server</a> </strong> from <strong><a target="_blank" href="//www.slideshare.net/HollyCummins">Holly Cummins</a></strong> </div>

<h2>Dr. Alex Blewitt - A Brief History of Unicode</h2>

This talk looks at where Unicode came from, why UTF8 is important, and where
character sets have evolved from previous generations. From simple symbols like
@ and “ to complex symbols like national flags and Emojis, Unicode has played a
part in all new languages since the mid ‘90s.

Java was one of the first languages to pick Unicode as its representation
format, and most new languages since have chosen Unicode as their program
format. Languages created before have typically found the transition to Unicode
difficult or impossible (see Python 3 vs Python 2).

By the end of this talk, you’ll have found out more about Unicode than you ever
really wanted to know. But at least you’ll know why you sometimes see ÿþ or þÿ
at the start of a document, why Windows sometimes produces ï»¿, or why a flag
can take up to 10 characters to represent.

The
<a href="{{ site.github.url }}/presentations/2016/AlexBlewitt-BriefHistoryOfUnicode.pdf" rel="nofollow">presentation</a>
is available below:


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cZaEAeKTldg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="224e654abb48488e83487263d791458a" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

<h2>Bios</h2>

<b><a href="https://twitter.com/alblue">Alex Blewitt</a><b> has been working
with Java since its initial release in 1995 and been involved in the Eclipse
and OSGi communities for over a decade. He was a co-founder of the Docklands
LJC, a senior technical architect at Credit Suisse (whom he represented on the
JCP committee), and wrote for InfoQ and has published several books on Eclipse
and other technologies.

He currently lives in Milton Keynes, and when the weather is nice, has been
known to go flying from the local Cranfield airport.  Alex blogs at <a
href="https://alblue.bandlem.com">https://alblue.bandlem.com</a> and is on
Twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/alblue">@alblue</a>. 

<b><a href="https://twitter.com/holly_cummins">Holly Cummins</a></b> is the
technical lead of IBM’s Bluemix Garage London, and the former delivery lead for
the WebSphere Liberty Profile. She is a co-author of Enterprise OSGi in Action
and has spoken at JavaOne, Devoxx, JavaZone, The ServerSide Java Symposium, JAX
London, GeeCon, and the Great Indian Developer Summit, as well as a number of
user groups.

<hr/>
This event is being hosted by Credit Suisse in London. Sign-up information is available at <a href="https://www.meetup.com/Londonjavacommunity/events/232220614/">Meetup.com</a>.

